# Getting Started With Python

## Installation
There are a few ways to get started programming in Python. Depending on your
environment you will need to work out the details of this before getting
started. In most environments the easiest way to get started is to install
Python and Idle.
[Installing Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Idle is a simple way to get started coding and running Python files. At some
point you may want to start using the command line or another mechanism, but
Idle can be the easiest way to get started.

We always use the latest stable version of python (e.g. 3.5). Note that Python
had a lot change from 2->3 so you need to be explicit which version of Python
you are working with.

## First Syntax: Input/Output
Here are the 3 things you need to know for your first project:
1. Case and Whitespace matters:  make sure to be consistent about case
   and whitespace.
2. Variables are places to store values. Below I am setting my_number to
   the value 5.
   ```python
   my_number = 5
   ```
3. Input: asking a user to give you information is simple - you use the
   input function.  The only parameter to the function is a string that
   will be presented to the user when requesting the information.  The
   function returns the value the user enters like so:
   ```python
   name = input('Please type your name: ')
   ```
4. Print: to print something to the screen you simply use the #print#
   function:
   ```python
   print('Thank you')
   ```
5. There are multiple ways to format strings.
    * Using the '+' sign to concat strings:
   ```python
    'Hi ' + name
    ```

    * Using the 'format' function to format strings:
    ```python
    'Hi {}'.format(name)
    ```

So your mission is to write a python program that asks a question (or maybe
several! and prints out a friendly greeting.
