## Intro to Control Structures

Control structures are programming concepts that let you control the flow of a
program.  The key types of control in modern software are decision-making
structures and looping structures.

## Decision-Making
The first decision-making mechanism we will learn is an if/then/else
statement.  These are very natural since the syntax matches well to our
plain language. As with many languages Python uses '==' for comparison,
since the '=' is reserved for assigning values to variables.
>> if name == 'John':
>>     print('Welcome back, John!')
>> else:
>>     print('Welcome to our site, {}'.format(name))

## Looping
Looping is a common control structure that allows you to perform actions
repeatedly.

### For Loop
The first control function we are going to work with is a
for loop.  For loops can be used in many ways to loop across items:
1) Loop a certain number of times using the 'in range' syntax.  This loops
incrementing a counter, so printing the numbers 0 through 9:
>> for i in range(10):
>>     print(str(i))
2) You an loop across a list of items
>> names = ['Bob', 'John', 'Joe']
>> for name in names:
>>     print('{}'.format(name))

### While Loop
While loops are another kind of loop.  While loops loop while a condition
is True.  So if you want to play a game until a user gets over 100 points:

>> while total_points <= 100:
>>     points = play_round()
>>     # Note the line below uses shorthand += which is the same as
>>     # total_points = total_points + points
>>     total_points += points

##Exercise
To put this all together we will implement a madlib.  What are the steps of
building a madlib?  The students should be able to frame this up independently,
but something like this:
1) Write a story
2) Pull out the verbs/nouns/adjectives you want to make dynamic
3) Ask the user to enter those words
4) Print out the mad lib with the injected words
5) Ask the user if they want to try again
